---
layout: post
title: "What I do to this at start"
tags: test
---
My purpose:

All of the templates I can find have all kinds of branding and whatnot in them. I want to be able to throw together a site without remembering how I did it.

Perhaps I'll post it for all someday.

## Starting out
Clone the original to local:
- Navigate to the folder to add the repo to and enter the command line there
- Enter `git clone https://github.com/jekyll/minima.git`
  - Mine is `https://github.com/Erisred/my-minima.git`
- Navigate to the files and delete the `.git` file in the root. `minima/.git`
- Back to command line - in the newly created project folder - and enter `git init` to rebuild the git file.
  - If following exactly, just perform `cd minima` to enter the new folder.
- Push to your repo (already created, of course!)
  - `git add .`
  - `git commit -m "your commit message"`
  - `git remote add origin <ADDRESS>`
    - *Address* is the url of **your** repo.
    - As in: https://github.com/GITHUB NAME/GITHUB REPO NAME
  - `git push origin main`
- Make the changes as outlined below, unless it was mine you cloned.

## Changes made to the original
I made changes to the Minima files for this template. I tried to document them all here, along with some lessons learned. Note that the template in my repo has all these changes already.
- Downloaded the original from [minima-master](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/tree/master), and performed the above tasks.
- Added this startup page to preserve documentation.
- Removed the minimal gemspec to make the site a little more independent. This invloves changing the following in the Gemfile:
  - Comment out the gemspec line to just read `#gemspec`.
  - Then, add `gem "minima", :github => 'jekyll/minima'`
    - For posterity, the resources I used to figure out how to do this were [Remove the unnecessary](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/quick-start-guide/#remove-the-unnecessary) and an [issue post](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes/issues/1407) about removing it that proved it was possible, and finally [this blog post](https://urishx.github.io/2020/12/16/Customizing-Jekyll's-default-theme.html) that gave the final clues.
- Changed links to be what I've always felt is more 'normal' wesite behavior, but to each their own.
  - Remove brand color and add underline in default text color.
  - Also changed link hover action to remove the underline on hover.
  - Changed the `text-decoration-thickness` on the link underlines. It was too thick.
  - This was done in the `base.scss` file.
- Discovered something about Ruby webricks that I *always* forget about when making these. Hopefully I'll check this out next time...
  - When serving the site to localhost, if a webrick error presents, run the following on the CLI: `bundle add webrick`. This adds the necessary webrick to the gemfile. You are welcome :)
- Added all of the variables I could find to the `custom-variables` file. They have been commented out for now (except the font addition noted below). The default variables are controlled via the minima gem, but can be overridden using this file.
- Hosted on Github for version control.
- Added and activated the Montserrat font. Because Montserrat.
  - Can unset in the custom-variables.scss file (line 5).
- Adjusted padding on footer. Totally a taste thing.
- Added a contact info section to the About page. The Author name and `mailTo` link is pulled from the `config.yml` file, and can be changed at will.
  - I seriously considered removing some stuff from the footer, but left this as a design choice.
- Added a skeleton setup to add a favicon. User just needs to add a file named `favicon.ico` to the site's root folder with the image they want.  
- Added tags and wrote a how-to. Both for how I added them to this template and how to maintain or add them as a blogger/user.
- Learned how to use a relative link for .md files here. Might be of use later on... From [this forum post](https://talk.jekyllrb.com/t/how-to-link-from-md-page-to-other-page/6067/5).
  - Format: {% raw %}`[link text]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link path/to/post.md %})`{% endraw %}
  - I also seriously considered adding instructions on how to add disqus comments, but there are already plenty of posts about that, and the Minima tamplate already supports it.
  - Lastly - Added a link to the footer to a terms of service page with (for now) some rough concepts for terms and legalese a blogger might want. I may someday refine this page or remove it altogether. I did a little resarch to find the things there, so for now, I'll leave it.

## Notes on the Minima theme style(s)
- The `config.yml` file can be amended to use one of five prebuilt themes from minima. This would be a great way for a user to add their own themes.
    - How: Change `minima: skin:` from classic to what you'd like. See the lines immediately preceding that one for a list of available themes. The site does need to be rebuilt for changes to take effect (as do any changes in `config.yml`).
- Note to new users - blockquotes (paragraphs that start with >) are not formatted very well, IMHO. It's the next thing I would consider changing... but that's just me.