---
layout: post
title: "Adjusting and adding tags to this template site"
tags: test
---
The framework for tags has been added to this template site. To learn how they were added to the base Minima setup, see [this post]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _posts/2024/2024-03-28-tags-addition.md %}).

Main steps to adding tags:
- Add tags to posts
- Create a tagpage for each new tag used.

## Adding tags to posts
Add tags to posts by including them in the post (or page) frontmatter. One tag can be added using `tag:`, or multiple using `tags:` 
- note that you can use `tags:` for one tag as well, so it is acceptable to always use `tags:` so nothing ever needs maintenance.

Separate each tag with a single space. It is recommended to use lowercase letters in tag names only, a single word only, or separate words with a hyphen. If a two-word tag is absolutely necessary, be sure to put the tags in quotations.

Examples:
- `tags: single tag new` - three tags named, “single” and “tag” and “new”
- `tags: ["single tag", new`] - two tags named “single tag” and “new” - note that anything non-standard (single words separated by a single space) needs to be shown as an array: in square brackets, and comma-separated. 
  - note, it is very good practice to always use an array for multiple frontmatter values.

What a full frontmatter might look like:
```
---
layout: post
title: the very best title ever
subtitle: An even better byline
date: 2024-03-29 10:36:45 -0500
tags: [tag1, tag2, tag3]
categories: [cat1, cat2, cat3]
---
```

## Create a "tag page"
This page is where the user lands when clicking on a tag. It typically lists all the pages or posts that contain the tag, although it can really be whatever you want.

On this site, there is a layout template called `tagpage` that has a layout that does exactly that - lists all pages/posts with the given tag. If a new tag is used, a new tagpage needs to exist for it or the link will go nowhere. To do this, add a file to the root directory, name it `TAG.md` (replace TAG with the name of your tag, case sensitive), and add the following content:

{% raw %}
```
---
layout: tagpage
title: "Tag page for TAGNAME"
tag: TAGNAME
---

These posts are tagged with the {{ page.tag }} tag.
```
{% endraw %}

Change TAGNAME in both places to match your tag, case sensitive. Each tag needs its own file, placed in the root folder. Feel free to change the content if desired.

That's it. Add tags as desired, just don't forget to add a tag page for any new ones as you go.

Don't forget that included is a class, `.postTags`, that can be styled if you want the tag links to look different than standard links on the site. Also, most of the configuration is customizable, see the post linked at the top of this one for how the config files were added.



